Marked hydronephrosis and hydroureter are present in the right kidney (series 12 images 19-27).
Low signal intensity foci in the proximal right ureter (series 6 image 36) likely represents flow related artifact.
Possible septations may be present in the distal right ureter (series 12 image 20).
CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis with and without contrast is recommended to evaluate for possible stone or distal obstructing lesion.
Findings are new since the previous examination.
Decreased enhancement of the right kidney in comparison to the left during the arterial phase (series 15 image 35) may reflect a renal compromise.
Stable mild pelviectasis is again noted in the left kidney.
No mass is identified in the kidneys.
No masses seen along the right ureter.
Postoperative changes are seen from a distal pancreatectomy and cholecystectomy representing previous Whipple procedure.
There is dilatation of the pancreatic duct in the body and tail (series 6 images 23-20).
No recurrent mass is seen in the pancreas or anastomosis.
There is mild prominence of the biliary ducts in the left hepatic lobe (series 7 image 20).
No filling defect is seen within the common duct.
Spleen and adrenal glands are unremarkable.
No free fluid or lymphadenopathy seen.
No bowel obstruction is identified.
Anterior abdominal hernia is again noted containing small bowel without evidence of strangulation (series 7 image 33).
There is marked S-shaped scoliosis of the thoracolumbar spine.
No metastatic bone lesions are identified.
Diluted gadolinium contrast was injected into the patient.
There is no distinct evidence of an acetabular labral tear.
There is no high-grade chondral loss or delamination along the acetabular margin.
The labral morphology is maintained.
The ligamentum teres shows borderline thickening.
The bony anatomy does not reveal prominent acetabular overhang or retroversion.
There is bony prominence of the anterior lateral femoral head and neck region as well as mild lack of femoral head and neck offset.
This pattern could suggest, in the appropriate clinical setting, findings that may predispose to femoral acetabular impingement.
The gluteal tendons are intact.
The hamstring tendon origins are intact.
There is no occult or stress fracture or evidence of AVN.
The bony pelvis is intact including the SI joints and symphysis pubis.
With respect to the T2 mapping study, sequential coronal and sagittal images obtained with this technique along with graded color image analysis as well as corresponding graphing, do not reveal significant derangement or elevation of the T2 relaxation times that would indicate the presence of early chondral degeneration and collagen fiber breakdown in this patient at this time.
Evaluation of the brain demonstrates a prominent bilobed right and especially left-sided paramedial extra-axial mass centered overlying the posterior frontal and anterior parietal lobes.
The mass demonstrates heterogeneous signal but homogeneous enhancement with mildly irregular but smooth contours.
The mass measures approximately 5.8 x 58 x 4.2 CM (anterior posterior by transverse by superior-inferior).
The mass encases the falx and the adjacent superior sagittal sinus with evidence of marginal dural thickening, especially extending posteriorly in the midline splaying the upper leaves of the falx through the level of the upper occipital lobe.
Prominent reactive changes noted involving the periventricular and subcortical white matter of the left frontal and parietal lobes with a small amount also involving the right posterior frontal lobe.
There is adjacent mass effect without significant lateral shift and no herniation.
A smaller enhancing extra-axial mass more suggestive of atypical meningioma is seen overlying the right mid temporal lobe measuring 1.3 x 0.6 CM.
(Axial series 12 image 26).
There is no significant end vessel ischemic small vessel disease.
There is no acute infarct seen.
No intracranial hemorrhage is recognized.
There is no parenchymal mass or mass effect.
A developmental venous anomaly is suggested within the left parietal lobe.
The ventricles, sulci and basal cisterns appear unremarkable.
The vertebral and internal carotid arteries demonstrate expected flow voids indicating their patency.
The central skull base and temporal bones are intact.
The calvarium appears unremarkable.
The orbits are unremarkable.
The paranasal sinuses demonstrate mucosal thickening partially outlining anterior and posterior ethmoid air cells and the right and left antrum with a hyperplastic polypoid component along the floor.
No air-fluid levels are noted.
The nasal cavity appears unremarkable.
The nasopharynx is symmetric.
There is straightening of the normal cervical lordosis which may be positional or related to muscular spasm.
There is moderate to severe disc space narrowing from C4-5 through C6-7 with prominent prevertebral spondylosis.
Spinal cord is normal in caliber and signal intensity.
Cerebellar tonsils are normally located.
No destructive bony lesions.
There is low T1 signal intensity within the bone marrow surrounding the left C4-5 facet joint which may be reactive to facet arthropathy.
No disc osteophyte complex, spinal canal stenosis, or neural foraminal narrowing.
There is a focal 1-2 mm central disc protrusion and mild right uncovertebral joint hypertrophy with deformity of the ventral thecal sac with a mild spinal canal stenosis.
No significant neural foraminal narrowing.
There is a diffuse disc osteophyte more prominent on the left and left facet arthropathy with flattening of the ventral thecal sac with a mild spinal canal stenosis and moderate right and moderate to severe left neural foraminal narrowing.
There is a diffuse disc osteophyte more prominent on the right and mild bilateral facet joint hypertrophy with flattening of the ventral thecal sac with a mild spinal canal stenosis and moderate to severe right and mild left neural foraminal narrowing.
There is a diffuse disc osteophyte which results in flattening of the ventral thecal sac with a mild spinal canal stenosis and moderate to severe bilateral neural foraminal narrowing.
No disc osteophyte complex, spinal canal stenosis, or neural foraminal narrowing.
No paraspinal soft tissue mass.
There is diffuse marrow edema throughout the proximal phalanx of the second digit.
There is no definite fracture or cortical disruption identified.
There is mild soft tissue edema and swelling along the plantar aspect of the second toe and second metatarsophalangeal joint.
The Lisfranc joint and ligament are normal.
The metatarsal shafts are normal.
The first metatarsophalangeal joint and hallucal sesamoidal complex appear intact.
The flexor and extensor halluces longus tendons are normal.
There is focal soft tissue edema and thinning and attenuation and findings suggestive of a partial-thickness tear involving the medial aspect of the plantar plate of the second metatarsophalangeal joint with a small joint effusion and mild capsulitis.
The third, fourth and fifth metatarsophalangeal joints are normal.
No significant intermetatarsal bursitis.
No evidence of Morton's neuroma.
The flexor and extensor tendons and musculature of the midfoot appear normal.
The visualized thyroid gland is unremarkable.
The lungs are hyperinflated.
There are scattered foci of septal thickening and groundglass opacity in the bilateral upper lobes with associated tiny cysts.
There is an additional tiny focus of reticular nodular density in the super segment of the left lower lobe.
The remaining lungs are clear.
There is mild tracheomegaly and bilateral bronchiectasis.
The airways are patent.
There is no adenopathy, effusion or pneumothorax.
There is mild cardiomegaly with calcification of the coronary arteries.
There is moderate atherosclerosis without aneurysm or leak.
The pulmonary arteries are normal in caliber.
There is a moderate hiatal hernia.
There is diffuse diverticulosis.
The remaining visualized upper abdomen is unremarkable.
There is diffuse spondylosis.
There are mild chronic midthoracic compression fractures.
There is a small knee effusion and a small popliteal cyst present.
There is circumferential soft tissue edema and swelling at the level the knee most prominent posteriorly.
The medial meniscus is normal.
The lateral meniscus is normal.
The anterior cruciate ligament contains mild intrasubstance edema suggestive of a grade 1 sprain
but there is no high-grade or full-thickness tear.
The PCL is normal.
The medial collateral ligament is normal.
The iliotibial band and fibular collateral ligament are normal.
There is grade 1 strain/contusion involving the proximal gastrocnemius muscle and the distal biceps femoris muscle.
The patellofemoral articular surfaces are normal.
Medial tibiofemoral compartment:
The medial compartment articular surfaces are normal.
Lateral tibiofemoral compartment:
The lateral compartment articular surfaces are normal.
There are extensive bone contusions involving the distal femur and proximal tibia.
There is a nondisplaced Salter II fracture through the distal femoral growth plate with fluid within the growth plate and extensive adjacent marrow edema and bone contusion within the metaphysis.
The metaphyseal component of the fracture is noted along the peripheral margin of the lateral femoral condyle with a large subperiosteal hematoma and uplifting and displacement of the periosteum along the posterolateral aspect of the distal femoral metaphysis.
There is extensive bone contusion within the epiphyseal region of the proximal tibia.
There is a small linear area of low signal abnormality adjacent to the growth plate posteriorly suggestive of a small incomplete nondisplaced transverse fracture through the posterior metaphyseal region of the proximal tibia seen on image 11 of series 9.
No evidence of a tear.
Peripheral vertical tear in the posterior horn of the lateral meniscus at the ligament of Wrisberg attachment.
Complete tear of the ACL, which is torn in the mid substance.
The posterior cruciate ligament is intact.
Grade 1 to grade 2 MCL sprain.
There is edema in the deep fibers, as well as some in the in the superficial fibers and in the adjacent soft tissues.
Edema extends anteriorly to the region of the medial patellofemoral ligament attachment to the adductor tubercle where the injury is intermediate grade in character.
The lateral collateral ligament complex is intact.
Edema is noted in the popliteus muscle belly and muscle-tendon junction as well as the popliteal fibular ligament region also reflective of an intermediate grade injury.
No chondral defect or area of high-grade chondral loss.
Medial tibiofemoral compartment:
No chondral defect or area of high-grade chondral loss.
Lateral tibiofemoral compartment: No chondral defect or area of high-grade chondral loss.
Bone marrow contusions are seen in the posterior medial and lateral proximal tibia as well as the mid lateral femoral condyle extending anteriorly.
There is a contusion in the anterior lateral proximal tibia and as well in the proximal fibula.
There is an additional contusion along the inferior pole of the patella.
There is mild to moderate chondral thinning noted along the peripheral margin of the left acetabulum with linear fluid signal extending into the substance of the acetabular labrum within the anterosuperolateral quadrant suspicious for a small focal linear pattern tear.
There is a cam bump noted along the peripheral margin of the left femoral neck.
Small hip effusion present.
No fracture, stress fracture or AVN of the left femoral head and neck.
The adductors and hamstring tendons are normal.
There is mild distal gluteus medius insertional tendinosis.
No evidence of iliopsoas or greater trochanteric bursitis.
There is soft tissue edema within the left quadratus femoris muscle.
There is slight broadening of the right femoral neck with marginal osteophyte formation.
There is moderate right hip osteoarthritis with macerated tear of the acetabular labrum within the anterosuperolateral quadrant of the right hip and a small right hip effusion.
The adductors, hamstring tendons and gluteus musculature are normal.
There is mild soft tissue edema within the quadratus femoris muscle of the right hip.
Visualized osseous pelvis including the pubic symphysis and SI joints are normal.
Evaluation of the neck reveals a somewhat heterogeneous but well defined lobulated mass within the superficial lobe of the anterior right parotid gland.
The mass demonstrates a rounded focus of signal prolongation with enhancement.
The mass measures approximately 0.8 x 0.9 x 0.7 CM (anterior-posterior by transverse by superiorinferior).
This appears similar to that noted on the prior CT.
The mass just abuts the retromandibular vein, patent and medial to the right parotid duct.
The mass is most consistent with a benign pleomorphic adenoma.
No leftsided parotid mass is seen.
Right and left submandibular glands are unremarkable.
The mucosal surfaces of the upper aerodigestive tract appear symmetric and unremarkable.
The larynx is intact.
The nasopharynx is symmetric without distinct lesion.
The tongue and tongue base appear symmetric and unremarkable.
The median raphe is midline.
The thyroid gland appears symmetric without distinct nodule.
No pathologically enlarged lymph nodes are found.
The visualized lymph nodes demonstrate no central necrosis or extranodal extension.
The right and left faucial tonsil is symmetric and unremarkable.
The lingual tonsillar tissue appears symmetric and of normal volume.
The posterior nasopharyngeal lymphoid tissue does not appear enlarged.
Evaluation of the paranasal sinuses reveals no significant sinus inflammatory disease.
No air-fluid levels are noted.
The central skull base is intact.
The central petrous temporal bones and mastoids remain clear.
The visualized base of brain appears unremarkable.
Cervical spondylosis is noted, most notable for a broad-based disc bulge and dorsal osteophytic ridge at the C5/6 level with a C6/7 level focal 2 mm central disc protrusion and dorsal osteophytic ridging, resulting in mild central spinal stenosis.
Mild foraminal narrowing also evident bilaterally.
The lung apices are clear.
